# What's new in Gantt v5.3.0

## AjaxHelper.fetch now supports passing parameters in request body

Since this release [AjaxHelper.fetch](#Core/helper/AjaxHelper#function-fetch-static) method can pass provided `queryParams`
in the request body instead of query string. This happens for `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` and
`multipart/form-data` content types when `addQueryParamsToBody` option is set to `true`:

```javascript
AjaxHelper.fetch('url', {
    headers : {
        'Content-Type' : 'application/x-www-form-urlencoded'
    },
    addQueryParamsToBody : true
});
```

Please check `addQueryParamsToBody` in [FetchOptions](#Core/helper/AjaxHelper#typedef-FetchOptions)

**Please note** that this behavior is disabled by default so if you need to enable it globally please use
[AjaxHelper.DEFAULT_FETCH_OPTIONS](#Core/helper/AjaxHelper#property-DEFAULT_FETCH_OPTIONS-static):

```javascript
// enable addQueryParamsToBody by default
AjaxHelper.DEFAULT_FETCH_OPTIONS = {
    addQueryParamsToBody : true
}
```

## Time zone support

Support for Time zone conversion has been added to all Bryntum scheduling products. Simply set a IANA time zone
identifier as value for the [timeZone](#Gantt/model/ProjectModel#config-timeZone) config and that's it.

But since time zones is not natively supported in JavaScript we strongly recommend to read our
[Time zone guide](#Scheduler/guides/customization/timezone.md).

Also, please check out the new [Time zone demo](https://bryntum.com/examples/gantt/timezone/).

```javascript
new Gantt({
    timeZone : 'America/Chicago'
});
```

## Versions feature

You can now enable the Versions feature on Gantt to capture, restore, and compare snapshots of a project, plus detailed
change logs. The Versions feature adds a VersionStore and a ChangeLogStore to the project, and
captures change logs using the STM feature.

Versions can be captured at any time programmatically, or on a configured
schedule. Versions contain both a full snapshot of the project and a set of change log transactions describing the
changes since the previous version, in a format useful for display to the user.

<div class="external-example" data-file="Gantt/guides/whats-new/5.3.0/versions.js"></div>

## New locales

New locales for 31 languages have been added. Currently available languages are listed in the
[localization guide](#Gantt/guides/customization/localization.md#locales).


<p class="last-modified">Last modified on 2024-05-21 9:04:33</p>