# Upgrade guide for Scheduler Pro v5.1.0

## New module bundle for Angular

Bryntum Schduler Pro is now delivered with new ES Module bundle without WebComponents. This was done to avoid conflicts
with Angular which also uses WebComponents for applications.

Angular wrappers use `schedulerpro.module.js` bundle in favor of removed `schedulerpro.lite.umd.js` one.

Your Angular applications should be upgraded to use the new `schedulerpro.module.js` bundle which is set as `main` for
`@bryntum/schedulerpro` NPM package.

Replace all application imports from Bryntum packages as shown below:

**Old code:**

```javascript
import { SchedulerPro } from '@bryntum/schedulerpro/schedulerpro.lite.umd.js';
```

**New code:**

```javascript
import { SchedulerPro } from '@bryntum/schedulerpro';
```

## New module bundle with WebComponents

Bryntum Scheduler Pro is now delivered with new `schedulerpro.wc.module.js` ES Module bundle with WebComponents.

Your applications which use WebComponents and modules bundle should be upgraded to import from new
`schedulerpro.wc.module.js` instead of `schedulerpro.module.js`.

## New keyboard shortcuts functionality

[KeyMap](#Core/widget/mixin/KeyMap) is a mixin that allows for standardized and customizable keyboard shortcuts
functionality. KeyMap is mixed in to Widget by default and therefore available to all Widget child classes. There is a
new [guide](#Grid/guides/customization/keymap.md) describing how to customize currently integrated keyboard shortcuts.


<p class="last-modified">Last modified on 2024-05-21 9:05:01</p>