# What's new in Scheduler v5.4.0

## New way to assign multiple resources to events

It is now possible to assign multiple resources to an event by supplying
them in the new `resourceIds` field. It only applies if the field is configured with `perist: true`.

Please check [resourceIds docs](#Scheduler/model/mixin/EventModelMixin#field-resourceIds)
for additional information.

## EventCopyPaste has been made asynchronous

The `EventCopyPaste` feature has been enhanced to usa a page-global internal clipboard and also supports the browser's
native Clipboard API if accessible. This means that it is possible to copy and paste events between multiple instances
of Scheduler or other Grid-based components. It is also possible to copy an event and paste it inside a Spreadsheet app
like Excel.

Another improvement is that both the `beforeCopy` and `beforePaste` events are now asynchronously preventable.

You can try this out in the
[Drag drop between multiple schedulers demo](https://bryntum.com/products/scheduler/examples/drag-between-schedulers/).

Please note that this enhancement has required API changes:
* The `copyEvents` and `pasteEvents` functions are now asynchronous.

## New TimelineHistogram view

This release introduces a new [TimelineHistogram](#Scheduler/view/TimelineHistogram) class which implements a grid with
histogram charts displayed for rows in the timeaxis section.

<div class="external-example" data-file="Scheduler/view/TimelineHistogram.js"></div>

Please check the new [Timeline histogram demo](https://bryntum.com/products/scheduler/examples/timelinehistogram/)
and the ["Timeline histogram" guide](#Scheduler/guides/timelinehistogram.md) for more details.

## Event color editing

We have added default editors for the `eventColor` field. There is one in the `EventMenu` feature's context menu and one
in the `EventEdit` feature's event editing panel. Just set `showEventColorPickers` to true and the editors will appear.
There is also a new `EventColorColumn` which can be added to any Scheduler. It renders a colored element which the user
can click and select a new color as a default for each resource.

<div class="external-example" data-file="Scheduler/guides/whats-new/5.4.0/color.js"></div>

The selectable colors are those which are built-in as CSS classes to the Scheduler. See the EventModel's
[eventColor config](#Scheduler/model/mixin/EventModelMixin#field-eventColor) for more details.

```javascript
new Scheduler({
    // Activates the context menu event color picker. Also shows a EventColorField in the event editor 
    showEventColorPickers : true,

    columns : [
        // Adds a column in which the user can see and edit the resource default event color
        { type : 'eventcolor', text : 'Color', size : 80 }
    ]
})
```

See the editors in action in the updated [Event editor demo](https://bryntum.com/examples/scheduler/eventeditor/).

## Split schedule feature

Scheduler has a new feature called [Split](#Scheduler/feature/Split) which allows you to split the schedule into 
multiple parts (two or four). This lets you access different parts of the schedule that might not otherwise fit in the 
same viewport. Try it in the live demo below, and in the new `split` demo:

<div class="external-example" data-file="Scheduler/feature/Split.js"></div>


<p class="last-modified">Last modified on 2024-05-21 9:04:59</p>