# What's new in Grid v5.1.0

## Introduction of Create React App templates

[Create React App script](https://create-react-app.dev/) templates are now available in the public npm repository.

If you are using **javascript only**, just type:

```shell
npx create-react-app my-app --template @bryntum/cra-template-javascript-grid
```

or if you prefer using **typescript**:

```shell
npx create-react-app my-app --template @bryntum/cra-template-typescript-grid
```

**Note**: Please feel free to change `my-app` to your preferred application name

Check the [React integration guide](#Grid/guides/quick-start/react.md) for more information.

## Row expander

A [RowExpander](#Grid/feature/RowExpander) feature has been added to Grid, which also makes it available for Scheduler
and Scheduler Pro. This feature makes it possible to expand and collapse each row by either a separate expander column
or a grid cell event. The expanded row's content is rendered by a rendering function that should be provided in the
feature config. Comes with a new demo, [row-expanding](https://bryntum.com/products/grid/examples/row-expanding/).

Try it out in the live demo here:

<div class="external-example" data-file="./data/Grid/examples/feature/RowExpander.js"></div>

## New module bundle for Angular

Bryntum Grid is now delivered with new ES Module bundle without WebComponents. This was
done to avoid conflicts with Angular which also uses WebComponents for applications.

Angular wrappers use `grid.module.js` bundle in favor of removed `grid.lite.umd.js` one.

Check the [upgrading guide](#Grid/guides/upgrades/5.1.0.md#new-module-bundle-for-angular) for the details.

## New module bundle with WebComponents

Bryntum Grid is now delivered with new `grid.wc.module.js` ES Module bundle with WebComponents.

Check the [upgrading guide](#Grid/guides/upgrades/5.1.0.md#new-module-bundle-with-webcomponents) for the details.

## New keyboard shortcuts functionality

[KeyMap](#Core/widget/mixin/KeyMap) is a mixin that allows for standardized and customizable keyboard shortcuts
functionality. KeyMap is mixed in to Widget by default and therefore available to all Widget child classes. There is a
new [guide](#Grid/guides/customization/keymap.md) describing how to customize currently integrated keyboard shortcuts.


<p class="last-modified">Last modified on 2024-05-21 9:04:41</p>