# Upgrade guide for Scheduler v5.1.0

## New module bundle for Angular

Bryntum Schduler is now delivered with new ES Module bundle without WebComponents. This was done to avoid conflicts
with Angular which also uses WebComponents for applications.

Angular wrappers use `scheduler.module.js` bundle in favor of removed `scheduler.lite.umd.js` one.

Your Angular applications should be upgraded to use the new `scheduler.module.js` bundle which is set as `main` for
`@bryntum/scheduler` NPM package.

Replace all application imports from Bryntum packages as shown below:

**Old code:**

```javascript
import { Scheduler } from '@bryntum/scheduler/scheduler.lite.umd.js';
```

**New code:**

```javascript
import { Scheduler } from '@bryntum/scheduler';
```

## New module bundle with WebComponents

Bryntum Scheduler is now delivered with new `scheduler.wc.module.js` ES Module bundle with WebComponents.

Your applications which use WebComponents and modules bundle should be upgraded to import from new 
`scheduler.wc.module.js` instead of `scheduler.module.js`.

## Dependencies feature refactored, part #1

The `draw()`, `drawDependency()`, `getConnectorEndSide()`, `getConnectorStartSide()`, `refreshDependency()` and 
`releaseDependency()` functions on the `Dependencies` feature has mistakenly been public ever since the feature was 
created. With the refactoring described in the changelog they are all now either removed or made private.

Under normal circumstances you should never have to do draw/refresh dependencies manually, if you have to do that it is
likely a bug that we would appreciate a report of. After the refactoring the only available option to draw/refresh is by
calling: `scheduler.features.dependencies.refresh()`. 

## Dependencies feature refactored, part #2 - `drawForEvent()` not needed

As a result of a large refactoring of the `Dependencies` feature the `drawForEvent()` fn was deprecated. Calling it
should no longer be necessary.

**Old code:**
```javascript
//... some action
scheduler.features.dependencies.drawForEvent(scheduler.eventStore.first);
```
**New code:**
```javascript
//... some action
```

## New keyboard shortcuts functionality

[KeyMap](#Core/widget/mixin/KeyMap) is a mixin that allows for standardized and customizable keyboard shortcuts
functionality. KeyMap is mixed in to Widget by default and therefore available to all Widget child classes. There is a
new [guide](#Grid/guides/customization/keymap.md) describing how to customize currently integrated keyboard shortcuts.


<p class="last-modified">Last modified on 2024-05-21 9:04:59</p>